Offline Exploit Resources
Access to the Internet is not always
guaranteed during a penetration test.
In cases where the assessment takes
place in an isolated environment,
the Kali Linux distribution
comes with various tools
that provide offline access
to exploits.
SearchSploit
The Exploit Database provides a
downloadable archived copy
of all hosted exploit code.
This archive is included by default
in Kali in the exploitdb package.
We recommended that you update
the package before any assessment
in order to ensure that you
have the latest exploits.
As with any other package, this is
done using the apt utility.
The exploitdb package stores
its copy of the database
in the
/usr/share/exploitdb/ directory.
This directory is split into two major
sections: exploits and shellcodes.
The exploits directory is
further divided into seperate
directories for each
operating system,
architecture, and scripting language.
Manually searching the Exploit Database
is by no means ideal,
especially given the large quantity
of exploits in the archive.
This is where the searchsploit
utility comes in handy.
To display its usage, we
simply run searchsploit
from the command line
without any parameters.
As the built-in examples reveal,
searchsploit allows us to search
through the entire archive
and display results based on various
search terms provided as arguments.
The options allow us to narrow
our search, change the output format,
update the database, and more:
Finally, the “Notes” section of the help
menu reveals helpful search tips.
For example, we can search for
all available remote exploits
that target the SMB service on
the Windows operating system
with this syntax.
Searchsploit returns the results in
a table containing the exploit title
and the path to its location
on the filesystem.
Nmap NSE Scripts
Nmap is one of the most popular
tools for enumeration.
One very powerful feature includes
the Nmap Scripting Engine,
which introduces the ability to
automate various tasks using scripts.
The Nmap Scripting Engine comes with a
variety of scripts to enumerate,
bruteforce, fuzz, detect,
and exploit services.
A complete list of scripts provided
by the Nmap Scripting Engine
can be found under
/usr/share/nmap/scripts.
Using grep to quickly search
the NSE scripts for the word “Exploits”
returns a number of results.
We can list information on
specific NSE scripts by running nmap
with the script-help option
followed by the script filename.
This provides information
about the vulnerability
and external information resources.
The Browser Exploitation Framework (BeEF)
The Browser Exploitation Framework
is a penetration testing tool
focussed on client-side attacks
executed within a web browser.
Needless to say, it includes
a plethora of exploits.
To list the available exploits, we must
first start the required services.
We can do this automatically in Kali
Linux using the beef-xss command.
Once beef has started, we can login to the
framework with our web browser.
Now that we’re logged in, we
need to hook a victim browser.
Since advanced hooking is outside
the scope of this particular module,
we’ll just use the demo page
provided by the framework
by clicking the highlighted
demo page link.
This will allow BeEF to hook our browser.
Once our browser is hooked, it will appear
in the “Hooked Browsers” panel
of the BeEF console as the
localhost IP address.
Clicking our IP
(now known as a zombie)
presents us with a new page containing
details about our victim browser.
We can then proceed to
the Commands tab
where we can find various
enumeration scripts and exploits.
The Beef project is frequently
updated with new features and exploits
and is well worth experimenting with.
The Metasploit Framework
Metasploit is an excellent framework
built to assist in the development
and execution of exploits.
This framework is available
in Kali Linux by default
and can be started with
the msfconsole command.
We’ll cover this framework
extensively in another module
but for now we’ll simply focus
on listing the exploits available
within the framework
with the search command.
To demonstrate, consider this search for
the popular MS08-067 vulnerability.
Metasploit’s search command
includes numerous keywords
to help us find a particular exploit.
To list all the available options, we can
run search with the -h command.
Metasploit allows us to
search by CVE, type,
platform, Exploit Database ID,
and much more.